	SOAP track CfP

        Call for Papers

Service-Oriented Architectures and Programming track
  of the 30th Symposium On Applied Computing 

www.itu.dk/acmsac2015-soap/ 


        IMPORTANT DATES (strict)

September 12, 2014: Submission of regular papers and SRC research abstracts
November 17, 2014: Notification of paper and SRC acceptance/rejection
December 08, 2014: Camera-ready copies of accepted papers/SRC
December 15, 2014: Author registration due date


        ACM SAC 2015

For the past thirty years, the ACM Symposium on Applied
Computing has been a primary gathering forum for applied computer
scientists, computer engineers, software engineers, and application
developers from around the world. SAC 2015 is sponsored by the ACM
Special Interest Group on Applied Computing (SIGAPP), and is held at 
Salamanca (Spain).


        SOAP TRACK: CALL FOR PAPERS

Service-Oriented Programming (SOP) is quickly changing our vision of 
the Web, bringing a paradigmatic shift in the methodologies followed 
by programmers when designing and implementing distributed systems. 
Originally, the Web was mainly seen as a means of presenting 
information to a wide spectrum of people, but SOP is triggering a 
radical transformation of the Web towards a computational fabric 
where loosely coupled services interact publishing their interfaces 
inside dedicated repositories, where they can be discovered by other 
services and then invoked, abstracting from their actual 
implementation. Research on SOP is giving strong impetus to the 
development of new technologies and tools for creating and deploying 
distributed software. In the context of this modern paradigm we have 
to cope with an old challenge, like in the early days of 
Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) when, until key features like 
encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism, and proper design 
methodologies were defined, consistency in the programming model 
definition was not achieved. The complex scenario of SOP needs to be 
clarified on many aspects, both from the engineering and from the 
foundational points of view.

From the engineering point of view, there are open issues at many 
levels. Among others, at the system design level, both traditional 
approaches based on UML and approaches taking inspiration from 
business process modelling, e.g. BPMN, are used. At the composition 
level, although WS-BPEL is a de-facto industrial standard, other 
approaches are appearing, and both the orchestration and choreography 
views have their supporters. At the description and discovery level 
there are two separate communities pushing respectively the semantic 
approach (ontologies, OWL, ...) and the syntactic one like WSDL. In 
particular, the role of discovery engines and protocols is not clear. 
In this respect we still lack adopted standards: UDDI looked to be a 
good candidate, but it is no longer pushed by the main corporations, 
and its wide adoption seems difficult. Furthermore, a new 
implementation platform, the so-called REST services, is emerging and 
competing with classic Web Services. Finally, features like Quality 
of Service, security and dependability need to be taken seriously 
into account, and this investigation should lead to standard 
proposals.

From the foundational point of view, formalists have discussed widely
in the last years, and many attempts to use formal methods for 
specification and verification in this setting have been made. 
Session correlation, service types, contract theories and 
communication patterns are only a few examples of the aspects that 
have been investigated. Moreover, several formal models based upon 
automata, Petri nets and algebraic approaches have been developed. 
However most of these approaches concentrate only on a few features 
of Service-Oriented Systems in isolation, and a comprehensive approach 
is still far from being achieved.

Our track aims at bringing together researchers and practitioners 
having the common objective of transforming SOP into a mature 
discipline with both solid scientific foundations and mature 
software engineering development methodologies supported by dedicated
tools. In particular, we will encourage works and discussions about 
what SOP still needs in order to achieve its original goal.


Major topics of interest will include:

- Formal methods for specification of Web Services 
- Notations and models for Service-Oriented Computing 
- Methodologies and tools for Service-Oriented application design 
- Service-Oriented Middlewares 
- Service-Oriented Programming languages 
- Test methodologies for Service-Oriented applications 
- Analysis techniques and tools 
- Service systems performance analysis 
- Industrial deployment of tools and methodologies 
- Standards for Service Oriented Programming 
- Service application case studies 
- Dependability and Web Services 
- Quality of Service - Security issues in Service-Oriented Computing 
- Comparisons between different approaches to Services 
- Exception handling in composition languages 
- Trust and Web Services 
- Sustainability and Web Services, Green Computing 
- Adaptable Web Services



        SUBMISSIONS

Authors are invited to submit original unpublished papers. Submission
of the same paper to multiple tracks is not allowed. Peer groups with
expertise in the track focus area will double-blindly review
submissions. Accepted papers will be published in the annual
conference proceedings. SOAP track chairs will not submit to the
track. Submissions from SOAP PC members and from PC members and track
chairs of other SAC tracks are welcome. Submission guidelines
can be found on SAC 2015 Website:
    
	http://www.acm.org/conferences/sac/sac2015/

The submission web-link (START system) for regular papers is 

http://www.acm.org/conferences/sac/sac2015/Paper-SubmissionUploadPage.htm

Prospective papers should be submitted to the track using the provided
automated submission system. Please pay attention to ensure anonymity
of your submitted manuscript as detailed in the submission page so to
allow for double-blind review. Papers not satisfying this constraint
will be automatically rejected. The maximum length for papers is 8
pages. Accepted papers whose camera-ready version will exceed 6 pages
will have to pay an extra charge. 

Paper registration is required, allowing the inclusion of the paper/poster
in the conference proceedings. An author or a proxy attending SAC MUST present
the paper. This is a requirement for the paper/poster to be included
in the ACM/IEEE digital library. No-show of scheduled papers and posters
will result in excluding them from the ACM/IEEE digital library.


        SPECIAL ISSUE

Authors of best papers will be invited to submit an extended and revised 
version of their work to a special issue of an indexed journal.


        STUDENT RESEARCH COMPETITION PROGRAM 

Graduate students are invited to submit research abstracts (minimum of
2-page and maximum of 4-page) following the instructions published at
SAC 2014 website. Submission of the same abstract to multiple tracks
is not allowed. All research abstract submissions will be reviewed by
researchers and practitioners with expertise in the track focus area
to which they are submitted. Authors of selected abstracts will have
the opportunity to give poster presentations of their work and compete
for three top-winning places. The Student Research Competition
committee will evaluate and select First-, Second-, and Third- place
winners. The winners will receive cash awards and SIGAPP recognition
certificates during the conference banquet. Authors of selected
abstracts are eligible to apply to the SIGAPP Student Travel Award
program for support.

The web-link for the SRC (Student Research Competition) is 

http://www.acm.org/conferences/sac/sac2015/src15.htm


        PC MEMBERS 

- Laura Bocchi (Imperial College London, UK)
- Rubén Casado Tejedor (Treelogic, Spain)
- Ana Cavalli (TELECOM & Management SudParis, France)
- Mauro Caporuscio (Linnaeus University, Sweden)
- Michele Ciavotta (Politecnico di Milano, Italy)
- Javier Cubo (University of Málaga, Spain)
- Nicola Dragoni (Technical University of Denmark, Denmark)
- Rosa Filgueira Vicente (University of Edinburgh, UK)
- Claudio Guidi (italianaSoftware, University of Bologna, Italy and INRIA, France)
- Manuel Mazzara (Innopolis University, Russia and ETH Zurich)
- Fabrizio Montesi (IT Copenhagen, Denmark)
- Manuel Núñez (University Complutense of Madrid, Spain)
- Durica Nikolić (ETH Zurich, Switzerland)
- Nuno Oliveira (Universidade do Minho, Portugal)
- Kévin Ottens (Klarälvdalens Datakonsult AB, Sweden)
- César Sánchez (IMDEA Software Institute, Spain)‎
- Daniel Sykes (Imperial College London, UK)
- Valentín Valero Ruiz (University Castilla-La Mancha, Spain)
- Peter Wong (Fredhopper - Amsterdam, Netherlands)
- Franz Wotawa (Graz University of Technology, Austria)
- Ilsun You (Korean Bible University, Korea)
- Fatiha Zaïdi (Université Paris-Sud XI, France)
- Hernán Melgratti (University of Buenos Aires, Argentina)
- Silvio Ghilardi (Università degli studi di Milano, Italy)


        TRACK CHAIRS

Alberto Lluch Lafuente
alberto.lluch@imtulucca.it
IMT Institute for Advanced Studies Lucca, Italy

Marcello Maria Bersani 
marcellomaria.bersani@polimi.it
Polytechnic of Milan, Italy

Alberto Nunez 
alberto.nunez@pdi.ucm.es
Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Spain



		STEERING COMMITTEE

- Claudio Guidi, italianaSoftware, University of Bologna, Italy and INRIA, France
- Ivan Lanese, University of Bologna, Italy and INRIA, France
- Manuel Mazzara, Innopolis University, Russia and ETH Zurich
- Fabrizio Montesi, IT University of Copenhagen


